In the previous video, we already create topology
to learn about network address translation.
Now in this video, we are going to configure
the ip address on all router server and pc.
Let’s just start, we will start with google
router.
CLI, no, enable, configure terminal, we will
configure fa0/0 first, so interface fa0/0,
no shutdown, and then the ip address is 172.16.10.1
255.255.255.0,
Next for fa0/1, interface fa0/1, no shutdown,
ip address 10.10.10.1 255.255.255.0,
okay we have done on router 1, next let’s configure
the ip address on server google.
Desktop, ip configuration, the ip address
is 172.16.10.2, and the gateway is 172.16.10.1.
the prefix is /24, so the subnetmask is 255.255.255.0.
Okay we have done on google, next let’s
configure the Ip address of ISP router,
no, enable, configure terminal, let’s start
with fa0/0, so interface fa0/0, no shutdown,
ip address 10.10.10.2 255.255.255.0, Next
for fa0/1, interface fa0/1, no shutdown,
ip address 10.20.20.1 255.255.255.0.
Okay we have done on isp.
Next, let’s configure the customer, CLI, no,
enable, configure terminal,
let’s start with fa0/0, interface fa0/0, no shutdown,
ip address 10.20.20.2 255.255.255.0
Next let’s configure the ip address for
vlan 10 and vlan 20, go to interface fa0/1,
no shutdown.
And then let’s configure for vlan 10, interface
fa0/1.10, encapsulation dot1q 10,
ip address 192.168.10.1 255.255.255.0
Next let’s configure for vlan 20, interface
fa0/1.20, encapsulation dot1q 20,
ip address 192.168.20.1 255.255.255.0
Okay we have done configuring the ip address,
next let’s configure dhcp server for vlan
10 and vlan 20.
Let’s start with vlan 10, ip dhcp pool vlan
10, network 192.168.10.0 255.255.255.0,
default-router 192.168.10.1.
Next let’s configure for vlan 20, ip dhcp
pool vlan 20, network 192.168.20.0 255.255.255.0,
default-router 192.168.20.1
Okay we have done here.
Last, let’s configure vlan on the switch,
enable, configure terminal,
let’s create the vlan, vlan 10, vlan 20.
Next let’s configure the interface that
connected to client, this is fa0/2,
and this fa0/3, so interface fa0/2 until 3 will be
in vlan 10, interface range fa0/2-3,
switchport mode access, switchport access vlan 10.
Next for vlan 20, this is fa0/4 and this is
fa0/5, interface range fa0/4-5,
switchport mode access, switchport access vlan 20.
Last, let’s configure trunk on interface
that connected to the router, interface fa0/1,
switchport mode trunk.
Okay now we have done configuring on all router
and switch.
Next, let’s configure dhcp client on all
pc.
Okay, all pc is get an ip address automatically
from the router.
I think enough for this video, in the next
video, we are going to configure routing.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next video.